Configuring Producers doc (#977)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/platform/development/configure-producers.mdx

---
title: Configuring Producers
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Configuring Producers | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn how to configure producers with Redpanda."/>
</head>

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

Along with brokers, topics, consumers, and producers are one of the essential
components of a Redpanda deployment. Within streaming applications, producers
are responsible for sending data to brokers, which are stored in topics made
up of partitions. Producers are client applications that write data to Redpanda

> in the form of events. In other woords, the role of the producer is to send

Reviewer: replace woords with words

> messagesto a topic in the cluster. Producers communicate with Redpanda through

Reviewer: space between messages and to

> the Kafka Producer API.

Reviewer: I would say the Kafka API

When a producer publishes a message to a Redpanda cluster, the leader broker of
the partition being written to receives that message and appends it to the
partition in the target topic, which then sends it to the follower brokers for
replication, making that message immediately durable and resilient to node loss.

> Producers can also publish messages to a particular partition.

Reviewer: This paragraph jumps from talking about the partition to the target topic and back to talking about partitions. It might be better to mention how a specific partition is selected for producing to. 

Every event is made up of a key and value. If the key is blank, then the producer will round-robin between the topic's partitions. If a key is provided, it is hashed using murmur2 and then module across the number of partitions.

## Producer configuration options

Redpanda provides a myriad of configuration options for all components of a
cluster. Finding the optimal combination of these components depends largely on
your specific use case. The following sections describe producer configuration
options, and how to combine these options with other component configurations
for optimal results.

### Producer acknowledgement settings

Producer acknowledgment defines how producer clients and broker leaders
communicate their status while transferring data. The `acks` (abbreviation of
"acknowledgments") parameter controls the behavior of the producer when a message

> is not acknowledged by the broker, and is useful when you are working with

Reviewer: Should that be "is acknowledged" instead of "is not acknowledged"?

kind of response from the broker. This is the least safe option because a
single-node crash can cause data loss. However, this setting is useful in cases
where you want to optimize for the highest throughput, and are willing to risk
some data loss.

Because of the lack of guarantees, this setting is the most network bandwidth-
efficient. This makes it useful for use cases like IoT/sensor data collection
where you can afford some degree of data loss, but prefer gathering as much data
as possible in a given time interval.

#### `acks=1`

The producer waits for an acknowledgment from the leader, but it doesn’t wait
for the leader to get acknowledgments from replicas. This setting doesn’t
prioritize throughput, latency, or durability. Instead, `acks=1` attempts to
provide a balance between all of them.

Replication is not guaranteed with this setting because it happens in the
background, after the acknowledgement is sent to the producer from the leader
broker. This setting could result in data loss if the leader broker crashes
before any followers manage to replicate the message.

#### `acks=all`

The producer receives an acknowledgment after the leader and the majority of

> (and therefore, implicitly, all) replicas acknowledge the message. This increases

Reviewer 2: > after the leader and the majority of (and therefore, implicitly, all) replicas acknowledge the message

It's a bit confusing. Can we simply say `after the majority of (and therefore, implicitly, all) replicas acknowledge the message`?

Author: Thx @daisukebe

partition size. You can also test `acks` settings.

For example, the quicker a producer receives a reply from the broker that the
message has been committed, the sooner it can send the next message, which
generally results in higher throughput. Hence, if you set `acks=1`, then the
leader broker would not have to wait for replication to occur, and it can reply
as soon as it is finished committing the message. As mentioned earlier, this
can result in less durability overall.

Another option to explore is how the producer batches messages. Increasing the
value of `batch.size` and `linger.ms` can increase throughput by making the
producer add more messages into one batch before sending it to the broker and
waiting until the batches can properly fill up. This approach negatively impacts
latency though. By contrast, if you minimize `linger.ms` (for example, to `0`)
and `batch.size` to `1`, you can achieve lower latency, but sacrifice throughput.

#### Optimizing for safety

For applications where you must guarantee that there are no lost messages,
duplicates, or service downtime, you can test `acks` settings. If you set

> `acks=all`, then the producer will wait for all replicas to acknowledge the

Reviewer 2: > all replicas to acknowledge

`majority of replicas to acknowledge`?

---
title: Configuring Producers
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Configuring Producers | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn how to configure producers with Redpanda."/>
</head>

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

Along with brokers, topics, consumers, and producers are one of the essential
components of a Redpanda deployment. Within streaming applications, producers
are responsible for sending data to brokers, which are stored in topics made
up of partitions. Producers are client applications that write data to Redpanda
in the form of events. In other words, the role of the producer is to send
messages to a topic in the cluster. Producers communicate with Redpanda through
the Kafka API.

When a producer publishes a message to a Redpanda cluster, it sends it to a
specific partition.  Every event consists of a key and value. To select
which partition to produce to, if the key is blank the producer round-robins
between the topic's partitions. If a key is provided, then the partitioner
hashes the key using the murmur2 algorithm and modules across the number of
partitions.

## Producer configuration options

> Redpanda provides a myriad of configuration options for all components of a

Reviewer 3: This section implies that the following are redpanda configuration options when they are not. They are configuration options that are set on the consumers end. It may be confusing to a user who is unfamiliar with kafka and then they may try to set some of these options in `redpanda.yml` thinking it may take effect.

Author: @graphcareful Thanks Rob. Does this work?
"There are a myriad of configuration options for all components of a cluster."

If we don't claim that these are Redpanda-specific options, does that work?

Reviewer 3: Maybe `client configuration options`. Indicating that these options that are referenced to in the article are client options, not broker options

Author: Thanks @graphcareful !

Producer acknowledgment defines how producer clients and broker leaders
communicate their status while transferring data. The `acks` (abbreviation of
"acknowledgments") parameter controls the behavior of the producer when a message
is acknowledged by the broker, and is useful when you are working with
Redpanda clusters.

While it may seem logical that the producer should wait for the broker to
acknowledge the message in every circumstance, there are cases when you can
gain more by letting the messages fly to the broker, unconfirmed.

Sometimes trading speed for durability is the best strategy, but sometimes you
may want it the other way around. A message is considered "acknowledged" when
replication of the message to the majority of other brokers responsible for the
partition in the cluster is complete.

#### `acks=0`

The producer doesn’t wait for acknowledgments from the leader and doesn’t retry
sending messages. This increases throughput and lowers latency of the system at
the expense of durability.

This option allows Redpanda to immediately consider a message acknowledged when
it is sent to the broker. This means that Redpanda does not have to wait for any

> kind of response from the broker. This is the least safe option because a

Reviewer 4: +1

This is essentially a "fire and forget" mode for the producer.

> single-node crash can cause data loss. However, this setting is useful in cases

Reviewer 4: `a leader-node crash can cause data loss if the data has not yet replicated to the other nodes in the replica set`. I think we should make it clear that the data is still replicated, but the producer doesn't wait for it to happen. So the producer cannot guarantee that the messages it sends will persist after a crash.

    single-message batches. This means that setting the batch size too large is
    not necessarily undesirable, as it won't cause throttling when sending
    messages; rather, it will only cause increased memory usage.

    Conversely, setting the batch size too small can cause the producer to send
    batches of messages faster, which can cause network overhead, meaning a
    reduced throughput. The default value is usually 16384, but you can set this
    as low as 0, which turns off batching entirely.

* `linger.ms`

    `linger.ms` controls the maximum amount of time the producer will wait before
    sending out a batch of messages, if it is not already full. This means you
    can somewhat force the producer to make sure that batches are being filled
    up as efficiently as possible.

    If you are willing to tolerate some latency, setting this value to a number
    larger than the default of `0` will cause the producer to send fewer, more
    efficient batches of messages. If you set the value to `0`, there is still a
    high chance messages arrive around the same time to be batched together.

> ### Additional producer configuration options

Reviewer 3: Aren't there a bunch more configuration options? Does this article attempt to only cover the most used ones? Maybe it should be renamed to something like `redpanda most commonly used producer config options` or something?

---
title: Configuring Producers
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Configuring Producers | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn how to configure producers with Redpanda."/>
</head>

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

Along with brokers, topics, consumers, and producers are one of the essential

> components of a Redpanda deployment. Within streaming applications, producers

Author: I haven't seen an issue in the HTML output as of yet. In my last job, restructured text limited us to 80 character or something like that--anyway, I keep the lines short because it keeps the source easy to navigate--long lines required scrolling across the window and so I do it to avoid that.

are responsible for sending data to brokers, which are stored in topics made
up of partitions. Producers are client applications that write data to Redpanda
in the form of events. In other words, the role of the producer is to send
messages to a topic in the cluster. Producers communicate with Redpanda through
the Kafka API.

When a producer publishes a message to a Redpanda cluster, it sends it to a
specific partition.  Every event consists of a key and value. To select
which partition to produce to, if the key is blank the producer round-robins
between the topic's partitions. If a key is provided, then the partitioner
hashes the key using the murmur2 algorithm and modules across the number of
partitions.

## Producer configuration options

There are a myriad of configuration options for all components of a
cluster. Finding the optimal combination of these components depends largely on
your specific use case. The following sections describe producer configuration
options, and how to combine these options with other component configurations
for optimal results.

> ### Producer acknowledgement settings

Author: Agree--we should always link to the setting description if/when it exists. In this case, there is no reference that offers more detailed guidance on these options than what appear in this doc.

Producer acknowledgment defines how producer clients and broker leaders
communicate their status while transferring data. The `acks` (abbreviation of
"acknowledgments") parameter controls the behavior of the producer when a message
is acknowledged by the broker, and is useful when you are working with
Redpanda clusters.

While it may seem logical that the producer should wait for the broker to
acknowledge the message in every circumstance, there are cases when you can
gain more by letting the messages fly to the broker, unconfirmed.

Sometimes trading speed for durability is the best strategy, but sometimes you
may want it the other way around. A message is considered "acknowledged" when
replication of the message to the majority of other brokers responsible for the

> partition in the cluster is complete.

Author: Good suggestion.

In this configuration, both the producer and the broker prefer safety and
durability over throughput.

Idempotence is only guaranteed within a session. A session starts once the
producer is instantiated and a connection is established between the client and
Redpanda broker. When the connection is closed, the session ends.

If your application code retries a request, the producer client will assign a
new ID to that request, which may lead to duplicate messages.

### Message batching

When a producer prepares to send messages to a broker, it first fills up a
buffer. When this buffer is full, the producer compresses (if instructed to do
so) and sends out this batch of messages to the broker. The number of batches
that can be sent in a single request to the broker is limited by the
`max.request.size` parameter. The number of requests that can simultaneously be
in this "sending" state is controlled by the
`max.in.flight.requests.per.connection` value, which defaults to 5 in most
client libraries.

Batching is an efficient way to save on both network bandwidth and disk size as
messages can be compressed easier. The batching configuration can be tuned using:

> * `buffer.memory`

Author: Great catch

    choosing one of the built-in serializers or writing a custom one. The
    performance consequences of using serialiers is not typically significant.

    For example, if you opt for the JSON serializer, you will have more data to
    transport with each message because every record will contain its schema in
    a verbose format, which impacts your compression speeds and network
    throughput. Alternatively, going with AVRO or Protobuf allows you to only
    define the schema in one place, while also enabling features like schema
    evolution.

### Producer optimization strategies

You can optimize for speed (throughput and latency) or safety (durability and
availability) by adjusting parameters. Finding the optimal configuration depends
on your use case and requires some trial and error. The strategies described here
are meant to be used as guidelines, not hard rules.

Note that there are a wide variety of configuration options within Redpanda. The
configuration options mentioned here work best when combined with other
broker and consumer configuration options. For details, refer to
[Configuring Node Properties](../../cluster-administration/node-property-configuration)

> and [Consumer Offsets](../consumer-offsets).

Reviewer 5: Change to note admonition?

You can set other components’ parameters, like experimenting with the topic
partition size. You can also test `acks` settings.

For example, the quicker a producer receives a reply from the broker that the
message has been committed, the sooner it can send the next message, which
generally results in higher throughput. Hence, if you set `acks=1`, then the
leader broker would not have to wait for replication to occur, and it can reply
as soon as it is finished committing the message. As mentioned earlier, this
can result in less durability overall.

Another option to explore is how the producer batches messages. Increasing the
value of `batch.size` and `linger.ms` can increase throughput by making the
producer add more messages into one batch before sending it to the broker and
waiting until the batches can properly fill up. This approach negatively impacts
latency though. By contrast, if you minimize `linger.ms` (for example, to `0`)
and `batch.size` to `1`, you can achieve lower latency, but sacrifice throughput.

#### Optimizing for safety

For applications where you must guarantee that there are no lost messages,

> duplicates, or service downtime, you can test `acks` settings. If you set

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
duplicates, or service downtime, you can use higher durability `acks` settings. If you set
```

all brokers record messages in order, even in the event of node failures.
In this configuration, both the producer and the broker prefer safety and
durability over throughput.

Idempotence is only guaranteed within a session. A session starts once the
producer is instantiated and a connection is established between the client and
Redpanda broker. When the connection is closed, the session ends.

If your application code retries a request, the producer client will assign a
new ID to that request, which may lead to duplicate messages.

### Message batching

Batching is an efficient way to save on both network bandwidth and disk size as
messages can be compressed easier.

When a producer prepares to send messages to a broker, it first fills up a
buffer. When this buffer is full, the producer compresses (if instructed to do
so) and sends out this batch of messages to the broker. The number of batches
that can be sent in a single request to the broker is limited by the
`max.request.size` parameter. The number of requests that can simultaneously be
in this "sending" state is controlled by the
`max.in.flight.requests.per.connection` value, which defaults to 5 in most
client libraries.

> Tune the btaching configuration using:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Tune the batching configuration using:
```
